['Mechanistic insights into aniline-induced liver injury: Role of the mmu_circ_26984/Myh9/NLRP3 axis and modulation by N-acetylcysteine.', 'Diagnostic value of a logistic model of occupational lead poisoning using hematological parameters.', 'Identification of novel NRF2-dependent genes as regulators of lead and arsenic toxicity in neural progenitor cells.', 'Vitamin E protects dopaminergic neurons against manganese-induced neurotoxicity through stimulation of CHRM1 and KCNJ4.', 'Renal-protective effect of Asparagus officinalis aqueous extract against lead-induced nephrotoxicity mouse model.', 'Consequences of Disturbing Manganese Homeostasis.', 'Fluoride as a Potential Repressor of Glycogen Metabolism in Skeletal Muscle Cell Line CCL136.', 'Amanitins: The Most Poisonous Molecules of the Fungal World.', 'Microglia and Astroglia-The Potential Role in Neuroinflammation Induced by Pre- and Neonatal Exposure to Lead (Pb).', 'The role of microglial LRRK2 kinase in manganese-induced inflammatory neurotoxicity via NLRP3 inflammasome and RAB10-mediated autophagy dysfunction.', 'Ginkgo biloba supplement abates lead-induced endothelial and testicular dysfunction in Wistar rats via up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression, pituitary-testicular hormones and down-regulation of oxido-inflammatory reactions.', 'Differentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells as a model for evaluation of nerve agent-associated neurotoxicity.', 'The Minderoo-Monaco Commission on Plastics and Human Health.', 'Predicting Low-Level Childhood Lead Exposure in Metro Atlanta Using Ensemble Machine Learning of High-Resolution Raster Cells.', 'Multiply charged ion profiles in the UHPLC-HRMS analysis of palytoxin analogues from ', 'Nrf2/PINK1-mediated mitophagy induction alleviates sodium fluoride-induced hepatic injury by improving mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, and inflammation.', 'Sequencing-based fine-mapping and in silico functional characterization of the 10q24.32 arsenic metabolism efficiency locus across multiple arsenic-exposed populations.', 'Effectiveness of Withania frutescens root extract on testicular damage induced by lead acetate in adult albino rats.', 'A Newly Identified Monoterpenoid-Based Small Molecule Able to Support the Survival of Primary Cultured Dopamine Neurons and Alleviate MPTP-Induced Toxicity ', 'Potential Health Risks of Lead Exposure from Early Life through Later Life: Implications for Public Health Education.']


[['Fu Xinyu X', 'Song Li L', 'Chen Lili L', 'Jin Shuo S', 'Duan Zhongliang Z', 'Zhang Bo B', 'Xing Yuechen Y', 'Wang Yue Y'], ['Sun Guokang G', 'Xiang Pinpin P', 'Chen Yiping Y', 'Li Zheng Z', 'Wu Bo B', 'Rao Yanping Y', 'Zhu Zheng Z'], ['Park Hae-Ryung HR', 'Azzara David D', 'Cohen Ethan D ED', 'Boomhower Steven R SR', 'Diwadkar Avantika R AR', 'Himes Blanca E BE', "O'Reilly Michael A MA", 'Lu Quan Q'], ['Song Ruihan R', 'Chen Huanhuan H', 'Zhan Runqing R', 'Han Miaomiao M', 'Zhao Longzhu L', 'Shen Xiaoli X'], ['Almeer Rafa R', 'Alyami Nouf M NM'], ['Baj Jacek J', 'Flieger Wojciech W', 'Barbachowska Aleksandra A', 'Kowalska Beata B', 'Flieger Michał M', 'Forma Alicja A', 'Teresiński Grzegorz G', 'Portincasa Piero P', 'Buszewicz Grzegorz G', 'Radzikowska-Büchner Elżbieta E', 'Flieger Jolanta J'], ['Gutowska Izabela I', 'Maruszewska Agnieszka A', 'Skórka-Majewicz Marta M', 'Kempińska-Podhorodecka Agnieszka A', 'Kolasa Agnieszka A', 'Wszołek Agata A', 'Baranowska-Bosiacka Irena I', 'Żwierełło Wojciech W'], ['Vetter János J'], ['Gąssowska-Dobrowolska Magdalena M', 'Chlubek Mikołaj M', 'Kolasa Agnieszka A', 'Tomasiak Patrycja P', 'Korbecki Jan J', 'Skowrońska Katarzyna K', 'Tarnowski Maciej M', 'Masztalewicz Marta M', 'Baranowska-Bosiacka Irena I'], ['Pajarillo Edward E', 'Kim Sanghoon S', 'Digman Alexis A', 'Dutton Matthew M', 'Son Deok-Soo DS', 'Aschner Michael M', 'Lee Eunsook E'], ['Asiwe Jerome Ndudi JN', 'Ekene Enekabokom Nwoke EN', 'Agbugba Linda Chinyere LC', 'Moke Emuesiri Goodies EG', 'Akintade Abimbola Victoria AV', 'Ben-Azu Benneth B', 'Eruotor Harrison H', 'Daubry Tarela Melish Elias TME', 'Anachuna Kenneth Kelechi KK', 'Oyovwi Mega O MO'], ['Pulkrabkova Lenka L', 'Muckova Lubica L', 'Hrabinova Martina M', 'Sorf Ales A', 'Kobrlova Tereza T', 'Jost Petr P', 'Bezdekova Dagmar D', 'Korabecny Jan J', 'Jun Daniel D', 'Soukup Ondrej O'], ['Landrigan Philip J PJ', 'Raps Hervé H', 'Cropper Maureen M', 'Bald Caroline C', 'Brunner Manuel M', 'Canonizado Elvia Maya EM', 'Charles Dominic D', 'Chiles Thomas C TC', 'Donohue Mary J MJ', 'Enck Judith J', 'Fenichel Patrick P', 'Fleming Lora E LE', 'Ferrier-Pages Christine C', 'Fordham Richard R', 'Gozt Aleksandra A', 'Griffin Carly C', 'Hahn Mark E ME', 'Haryanto Budi B', 'Hixson Richard R', 'Ianelli Hannah H', 'James Bryan D BD', 'Kumar Pushpam P', 'Laborde Amalia A', 'Law Kara Lavender KL', 'Martin Keith K', 'Mu Jenna J', 'Mulders Yannick Y', 'Mustapha Adetoun A', 'Niu Jia J', 'Pahl Sabine S', 'Park Yongjoon Y', 'Pedrotti Maria-Luiza ML', 'Pitt Jordan Avery JA', 'Ruchirawat Mathuros M', 'Seewoo Bhedita Jaya BJ', 'Spring Margaret M', 'Stegeman John J JJ', 'Suk William W', 'Symeonides Christos C', 'Takada Hideshige H', 'Thompson Richard C RC', 'Vicini Andrea A', 'Wang Zhanyun Z', 'Whitman Ella E', 'Wirth David D', 'Wolff Megan M', 'Yousuf Aroub K AK', 'Dunlop Sarah S'], ['Frndak Seth S', 'Yan Fengxia F', 'Edelson Mike M', 'Immergluck Lilly Cheng LC', 'Kordas Katarzyna K', 'Idris Muhammed Y MY', 'Dickinson-Copeland Carmen M CM'], ['Medina-Pérez Noemí Inmaculada NI', 'Santos Francisco Javier FJ', 'Berdalet Elisa E', 'Moyano Encarnación E'], ['Song Chao C', 'Zhang Aiguo A', 'Zhang Man M', 'Song Yuzhen Y', 'Huangfu Heping H', 'Jin Shuangxing S', 'Sun Yanting Y', 'Zhang Chunhui C', 'Shi Dongmei D', 'Wang Jundong J', 'Peng Wei W', 'Luo Qin Q'], ['Chernoff Meytal Batya MB', 'Delgado Dayana D', 'Tong Lin L', 'Chen Lin L', 'Oliva Meritxell M', 'Tamayo Lizeth I LI', 'Best Lyle G LG', 'Cole Shelley S', 'Jasmine Farzana F', 'Kibriya Muhammad G MG', 'Nelson Heather H', 'Huang Lei L', 'Haack Karin K', 'Kent Jack J', 'Umans Jason G JG', 'Graziano Joseph J', 'Navas-Acien Ana A', 'Karagas Margaret R MR', 'Ahsan Habib H', 'Pierce Brandon L BL'], ['Bentaiba Karima K', 'Belhocine Mansouria M', 'Chougrani Fadela F', 'Bououdina Mohamed M', 'Mostari Abbassia A', 'Fernini Meriem M', 'Bouzouina Mohammed M'], ['Kotliarova Anastasiia A', 'Podturkina Alexandra V AV', 'Pavlova Alla V AV', 'Gorina Daria S DS', 'Lastovka Anastasiya V AV', 'Ardashov Oleg V OV', 'Rogachev Artem D AD', 'Izyurov Arseniy E AE', 'Arefieva Alla B AB', 'Kulikov Alexander V AV', 'Tolstikova Tatyana G TG', 'Volcho Konstantin P KP', 'Salakhutdinov Nariman F NF', 'Sidorova Yulia Y'], ['Olufemi Adejoke Christianah AC', 'Mji Andile A', 'Mukhola Murembiwa Stanley MS']]


[['College of Public Health, Harbin Medical University, 157 Baojian Road, Harbin 150086, China.', 'Department of Occupational Poisoning, Occupational Disease Research Institute of Heilongjiang Province, Harbin 150010, China.', 'College of Public Health, Harbin Medical University, 157 Baojian Road, Harbin 150086, China. Electronic address: wangyue@hrbmu.edu.cn.'], ['West China School of Public Health and West China Fourth Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.', 'Xiping Community Healthcare Center of Longquanyi District, Chengdu, China.'], ['Department of Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: hae-ryung_park@urmc.rochester.edu.', 'Department of Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.', 'Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.', 'Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.', 'Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.'], ['Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Medical School of Qingdao University, Qingdao, Shandong, China.', 'Qingdao Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention/Qingdao Institute of Preventive Medicine, Qingdao, Shandong, China.', 'Qingdao University Affiliated Hiser Hospital, Qingdao, Shandong, China.', 'Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Medical School of Qingdao University, Qingdao, Shandong, China. Electronic address: shenxiaoli@qdu.edu.cn.'], ['Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia. ralmeer@ksu.edu.sa.', 'Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia.'], ['Chair and Department of Anatomy, Medical University of Lublin, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.', 'Department of Plastic, Reconstructive and Burn Surgery, Medical University of Lublin, 21-010 Łęczna, Poland.', 'Department of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal, Lublin University of Technology, 20-618 Lublin, Poland.', 'Chair and Department of Forensic Medicine, Medical University of Lublin, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.', 'Clinica Medica A. Murri, Department of Biomedical Sciences & Human Oncology, Medical School, University of Bari, 70124 Bari, Italy.', 'Department of Plastic, Reconstructive and Maxillary Surgery, CSK MSWiA, 02-507 Warszawa, Poland.', 'Department of Analytical Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, 20-093 Lublin, Poland.'], ['Department of Medical Chemistry, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, Institute of Biology, University of Szczecin, 70-453 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Medical Biology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Histology and Embriology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Biochemistry, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.'], ['Department of Botany, University of Veterinary Medicine, Pf. 2., 1400 Budapest, Hungary.'], ['Department of Cellular Signalling, Mossakowski Medical Research Institute, Polish Academy of Sciences, Pawińskiego 5, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland.', 'Department of Biochemistry and Medical Chemistry, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, Powstańców Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Histology and Embryology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, Powstańców Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Physiology in Health Sciences, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, Żołnierska 54, 70-210 Szczecin, Poland.', 'Department of Neurology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, Unii Lubelskiej 1, 71-252 Szczecin, Poland.'], ['Department of Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, Florida, USA.', 'Department of Biochemistry and Cancer Biology, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.', 'Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.', 'Department of Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, Florida, USA. Electronic address: eunsook.lee@famu.edu.'], ['Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, PAMO University of Medical Sciences, Port-Harcourt, Nigeria; Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria; Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Delta State University, Abraka, Nigeria. Electronic address: asiwejerome@yahoo.com.', 'Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences, Rivers State University, Port-Harcourt, Nigeria.', 'Department of Theriogenology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.', 'Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Delta State University, Abraka, Nigeria.', 'Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Nigeria.', 'Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Port-Harcourt, Port-Harcourt, Nigeria.', 'Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Delta State University, Abraka, Nigeria.', 'Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Achievers University, Owo, Ondo, Nigeria.'], ['Department of Toxicology and Military Pharmacy, Faculty of Military Health Sciences, University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.', 'Department of Social and Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy in Hradec Kralove, Charles University, Akademika Heyrovskeho 1203, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.', 'University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Biomedical Research Center, Sokolska 581, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.', 'Department of Experimental Neurobiology, National Institute of Mental Health, Topolova 748, Klecany, Czech Republic.', 'Department of Toxicology and Military Pharmacy, Faculty of Military Health Sciences, University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. daniel.jun@unob.cz.', 'University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Biomedical Research Center, Sokolska 581, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. ondrej.soukup@fnhk.cz.'], ['Global Observatory on Planetary Health, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, US.', 'Centre Scientifique de Monaco, Medical Biology Department, MC.', 'Economics Department, University of Maryland, College Park, US.', 'Minderoo Foundation, AU.', 'Monterey Bay Aquarium, US.', 'Biology Department, Boston College, US.', "University of Hawai'i Sea Grant College Program, US.", 'Beyond Plastics, Bennington College, US.', "Université Côte d'Azur.", 'European Centre for Environment and Human Health, University of Exeter Medical School, UK.', 'Centre Scientifique de Monaco, Marine Biology Department, MC.', 'Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, UK.', 'Biology Department, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, US.', 'Department of Environmental Health, Universitas Indonesia, ID.', 'College of Medicine and Health, University of Exeter, UK.', 'Department of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.', 'United Nations Environment Programme, KE.', 'Department of Toxicology, School of Medicine, University of the Republic, UY.', 'Sea Education Association, US.', 'Consortium of Universities for Global Health, US.', 'Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Lagos, Nigeria.', 'Department of Chemistry, Boston College, US.', 'University of Vienna, Austria.', 'University of Massachusetts Amherst, US.', "Laboratoire d'Océanographie de Villefranche sur mer (LOV), Sorbonne Université, FR.", 'Chulabhorn Research Institute (CRI), TH.', 'Biology Department and Woods Hole Center for Oceans and Human Health, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, US.', 'Superfund Research Program, National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, US.', 'Laboratory of Organic Geochemistry (LOG), Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, JP.', 'International Marine Litter Research Unit, University of Plymouth, UK.', 'Theology Department, Boston College, US.', 'Technology and Society Laboratory, WEmpa-Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials and Technology, CH.', 'Boston College Law School, US.'], ['Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, School of Public Health and Health Professions, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14260, USA.', 'Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30310, USA.', 'Geographic Information Systems, InterDev, Roswell, GA 30076, USA.', 'Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry, and Immunology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30310, USA.', 'Department of Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30310, USA.'], ['Department of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Chemistry, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. encarna.moyano@ub.edu.', 'Department of Marine Biology and Oceanography, Institute of Marine Sciences (ICM-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain.'], ['Zhengzhou Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition Metabolic and Poisoning Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Henan University of Animal Husbandry and Economy, Zhengzhou 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address: hnuahesongchao@163.com.', 'Zhengzhou Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition Metabolic and Poisoning Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Henan University of Animal Husbandry and Economy, Zhengzhou 450000, Henan, China.', 'College of Veterinary Medicine, Henan University of Animal Husbandry and Economy, Zhengzhou 450000, Henan, China.', 'Key Laboratory of Plateau Livestock Genetic Resources Protection and Innovative Utilization, Qinghai Academy of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science, Xining 810016, Qinghai, China. Electronic address: 498094692@qq.com.', 'Zhengzhou Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition Metabolic and Poisoning Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Henan University of Animal Husbandry and Economy, Zhengzhou 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address: luo393496686@163.com.'], ['Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.', 'Missouri Breaks Industries Research Inc, Eagle Butte, South Dakota, United States of America.', 'Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.', 'School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States of America.', 'Center for Research Informatics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.', 'MedStar Health Research Institute, Hyattsville, Maryland, United States of America.', 'Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York City, New York, United States of America.', 'Department of Epidemiology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New Hampshire, United States of America.'], ['Laboratory of Sciences and Technics of Animal Production (LSTPA), University Abdelhamid Ibn Badis of Mostaganem, 27000 Mostaganem, Algeria. Electronic address: karima.bentaiba@univ-mosta.dz.', 'Laboratory of Sciences and Technics of Animal Production (LSTPA), University Abdelhamid Ibn Badis of Mostaganem, 27000 Mostaganem, Algeria.', 'Department of Mathematics and Science, Faculty of Humanities and Sciences, Prince Sultan University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: mboudina@gmail.com.', 'Laboratory of Geo-Environment and Spaces Development, University Mustapha Stambouli of Mascara, BP 305 Sidi Said, Algeria.', 'Laboratory of Plant Protection, University Abdelhamid Ibn Badis of Mostaganem, 27000 Mostaganem, Algeria.'], ['Department of Medicinal Chemistry, N. N. Vorozhtsov Novosibirsk Institute of Organic Chemistry, Siberian Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, Lavrentiev Ave., 9, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.', 'Department of Genetic Collections of Neural Disorders, Federal Research Center Institute of Cytology and Genetic, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.', 'Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Institute of Biotechnology, HiLIFe, Viikinkaari 5D, University of Helsinki, 00014 Helsinki, Finland.'], ['Office of the Dean, Faculty of Humanities, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.']]


['Aniline is a widely used chemical. Chronic or high-dose exposure to aniline can lead to hepatocellular damage. Although the hepatic pathogenicity of aniline has been established in previous studies, studies involving pathogenic genes during aniline-induced liver injury are limited. Our study first discovered and identified the role and mechanism underlying a new circRNA mmu_circ_26984 in aniline-induced chemical liver injury. Further, we discuss the protective effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in this pathway. After constructing in vitro and in vivo models of aniline treatment, we screened the circRNA with significant differences in expression in AML12 cells from control and aniline-treated groups by circRNA microarray analysis. Next, using RNA pulldown, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), and RNA immunoprecipitation, we analyzed the relationship between mmu_circ_26984 and myosin heavy chain 9 (Myh9). Subsequently, we determined the specific mechanism of action of mmu_circ_26984 and Myh9 in aniline-induced liver injury and the protective effect of NAC against aniline-induced liver injury process using Cell Counting Kit-8, Western blot, RNA extraction, a reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), fluorescence in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. The expression of mmu_circ_26984 was significantly increased in liver tissues and AML12 cells of aniline-treated mice compared with the control group. This high expression of mmu_circ_26984 increased the expression of injury-related inflammatory factors, such as NLRP3, Caspase-1, IL-18, and IL-1β in vivo and ex vivo, which exacerbated the level of liver injury. The interaction of mmu_circ_26984 with Myh9 also affected the course of liver injury. Mmu_circ_26984 overexpression and reduced treatment affected the levels of Myh9 expression in AML12 cells, as well as downstream inflammatory factors associated with injury, such as NLRP3. In addition, NAC reduced the process of liver injury mediated by the mmu_circ_26984/Myh9/NLRP3 axis. In conclusion, mmu_circ_26984 is a potential molecular marker and therapeutic target in the process of aniline-induced liver injury that can mediate aniline-exposure-induced liver injury via modulation of the mmu_circ_26984/Myh9/NLRP3 axis, and NAC can effectively attenuate the effect of this liver injury.', 'We investigated the predictive value of a logistic model utilizing hematological parameters in diagnosing occupational lead poisoning. This retrospective study (September 2020-December 2022) included patients with occupational lead poisoning. Differences in hematological parameters were compared between individuals with occupational blood lead poisoning and healthy individuals. We used logistic regression analysis to develop a diagnostic prediction model for occupational blood lead poisoning. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and corresponding area under the ROC curve values were used to assess the diagnostic value of hematological parameters and logistic models. Compared with controls, several indicators were significantly higher in the group with blood lead poisoning, but others were significantly lower. Logistic regression analysis showed that the red blood cell distribution width coefficient of variation (RDW-CV), neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and percentage of small red blood cells (Micro%) were independent factors in diagnosing occupational blood lead poisoning. The logistic regression model constructed based on these three parameters had sensitivity 78.7% and specificity 83.8% for diagnosing occupational lead poisoning. We identified RDW-CV, NLR, and Micro% as independent predictors in the diagnosis of occupational lead poisoning. A logistic regression model that includes these may contribute to better detection of occupational lead poisoning.', 'Lead (Pb) and arsenic (As) are prevalent metal contaminants in the environment. Exposures to these metals are associated with impaired neuronal functions and adverse effects on neurodevelopment in children. However, the molecular mechanisms by which Pb and As impair neuronal functions remain poorly understood. Here, we identified F2RL2, TRIM16L, and PANX2 as novel targets of Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)-the master transcriptional factor for the oxidative stress response-that are commonly upregulated with both Pb and As in human neural progenitor cells (NPCs). Using a ChIP (Chromatin immunoprecipitation)-qPCR assay, we showed that NRF2 directly binds to the promoter region of F2RL2, TRIM16L, and PANX2 to regulate expression of these genes. We demonstrated that F2RL2, PANX2, and TRIM16L have differential effects on cell death, proliferation, and differentiation of NPCs in both the presence and absence of metal exposures, highlighting their roles in regulating NPC function. Furthermore, the analyses of the transcriptomic data on NPCs derived from autism spectrum disorder (ASD) patients revealed that dysregulation of F2RL2, TRIM16L, and PANX2 was associated with ASD genetic backgrounds and ASD risk genes. Our findings revealed that Pb and As induce a shared NRF2-dependent transcriptional response in NPCs and identified novel genes regulating NPC function. While further in vivo studies are warranted, this study provides a novel mechanism linking metal exposures to NPC function and identifies potential genes of interest in the context of neurodevelopment.', 'Manganese (Mn) overexposure can induce neurotoxicity and lead to manganism. Vitamin E (Vit E) has neuroprotective effects by acting as an ROS scavenger, preventing mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal apoptosis. However, the effects of Vit E on Mn-induced nigrostriatal system lesions remains unknown. We aim to investigate whether Vit E has protective effects on Mn-induced nigrostriatal system lesions and mRNA expression profiles in the SN of mice. Sixty 8-week-old C57BL/6 male mice were randomly divided into the Control, MnCl Vit E ameliorates behavioral disorders and attenuates the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons in the Mn-induced mouse model. In addition, Vit E antagonized Mn-induced toxicity by restoring mitochondrial function. The results of transcriptome sequencing and RTPCR show that the protective effect of Vit E was related to the upregulation of CHRM1 and KCNJ4 mRNA in the SN. Vit E has neuroprotective effects on Mn-induced neurodegeneration in the nigrostriatal system. This effect may be related to the upregulation of CHRM1 and KCNJ4 mRNA stimulated by Vit E in the SN.', "Lead is one of the cursed substances that threaten all human life. Lead poisoning can occur through food or water contaminations and it is hard to be detected. This incognito metal accumulates over time and resides in the liver, kidneys, and brain tissues leading to serious medical conditions, affecting organ functions, causing failure, kidney tubule degeneration, and destroying neuronal development. However, known metal chelators have bad negative effects. Asparagus officinalis (AO) is a promising herb; its root extract exhibited antioxidant, antiapoptotic, protective, and immunomodulatory activities. Inspired by those reasons, this study investigated to which extent Asparagus extract affected male mice's renal toxicity caused by lead acetate (LA) and antioxidant defense system. This work screened for its nephroprotective activity in four mouse groups: negative and positive control, LA group with renal injury, and diseased but pretreated mice with AO extract (AOE). Kidney index and kidney function biomarkers were evaluated. Antioxidant activities, lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), nitric oxide (NO), and reduced glutathione (GSH) were also tested. Furthermore, inflammatory cytokine (tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1 β (IL-1β), and the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB)), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), renal pro-apoptotic protein (Bax), antiapoptotic protein (Bcl-2), and caspase-3 levels were evaluated. The results showed that LA administration induced oxidative stress, renal inflammation, apoptosis, and renal histopathological alteration. However, due to its antioxidant activities, AOE was found to restrain oxidative stress, therefore preventing inflammation and apoptosis. Collectively, AOE perfectly clogged lead poisoning sneaking, stopped the bad deterioration, and succeeded to protect kidney tissues from toxicity, inflammation, and apoptosis.", "Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element with unique functions in the body; it acts as a cofactor for many enzymes involved in energy metabolism, the endogenous antioxidant enzyme systems, neurotransmitter production, and the regulation of reproductive hormones. However, overexposure to Mn is toxic, particularly to the central nervous system (CNS) due to it causing the progressive destruction of nerve cells. Exposure to manganese is widespread and occurs by inhalation, ingestion, or dermal contact. Associations have been observed between Mn accumulation and neurodegenerative diseases such as manganism, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. People with genetic diseases associated with a mutation in the gene associated with impaired Mn excretion, kidney disease, iron deficiency, or a vegetarian diet are at particular risk of excessive exposure to Mn. This review has collected data on the current knowledge of the source of Mn exposure, the experimental data supporting the dispersive accumulation of Mn in the brain, the controversies surrounding the reference values of biomarkers related to Mn status in different matrices, and the competitiveness of Mn with other metals, such as iron (Fe), magnesium (Mg), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), lead (Pb), calcium (Ca). The disturbed homeostasis of Mn in the body has been connected with susceptibility to neurodegenerative diseases, fertility, and infectious diseases. The current evidence on the involvement of Mn in metabolic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus/insulin resistance, osteoporosis, obesity, atherosclerosis, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, was collected and discussed.", 'The exposure of humans to fluorine is connected with its presence in the air, food and water. It is well known that fluorides even at a low concentration but with long time exposure accumulate in the body and lead to numerous metabolic disorders. Fluoride is recognised as a factor modulating the energy metabolism of cells. This interaction is of particular importance in muscle cells, which are cells with high metabolic activity related to the metabolism of glucose and glycogen. In someone suffering from chronic fluoride poisoning, frequent symptoms are chronic fatigue not relieved by extra sleep or rest, muscular weakness, muscle spasms, involuntary twitching. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of fluorine at concentrations determined in blood of people environmentally exposed to fluorides on activity and expression of enzymes taking part in metabolism of muscle glycogen. CCL136 cells were cultured under standard conditions with the addition of NaF. The amount of ATP produced by the cells was determined using the HPLC method, the amount and expression of genes responsible for glycogen metabolism using WB and RT PCR methods and the amount of glycogen in cells using the fluorimetric and PAS methods. It has been shown that in CCL136 cells exposed to 1, 3 and 10 μM NaF there is a change in the energy state and expression pattern of enzymes involved in the synthesis and breakdown of glycogen. It was observed that NaF caused a decrease in ATP content in CCL136 cells. Fluoride exposure also increased glycogen deposition. These changes were accompanied by a decrease in gene expression and the level of enzymatic proteins related to glycogen metabolism: glycogen synthase, glycogen synthase kinase and glycogen phosphorylase. The results obtained shed new light on the molecular mechanisms by which fluoride acts as an environmental toxin.', 'Among the toxic metabolites of the fungal world, those that, due to their strong biological effect, can seriously (even fatally) damage the life processes of humans (and certain groups of animals) stand out. Amatoxin-containing mushrooms and the poisonings caused by them stand out from the higher fungi, the mushrooms. There are already historical data and records about such poisonings, but scientific research on the responsible molecules began in the middle of the last century. The goals of this review work are as follows: presentation of the cosmopolitan mushroom species that produce amanitins (which are known from certain genera of four mushroom families), an overview of the chemical structure and specific properties of amanitins, a summary of the analytical methods applicable to them, a presentation of the "medical history" of poisonings, and a summary of the therapeutic methods used so far. The main responsible molecules (the amanitins) are bicyclic octapeptides, whose structure is characterized by an outer loop and an inner loop (bridge). It follows from the unusual properties of amanitins, especially their extreme stability (against heat, the acidic pH of the medium, and their resistance to human, and animal, digestive enzymes), that they are absorbed almost without hindrance and quickly transported to our vital organs. Adding to the problems is that accidental consumption causes no noticeable symptoms for a few hours (or even 24-36 h) after consumption, but the toxins already damage the metabolism of the target organs and the synthesis of nucleic acid and proteins. The biochemical catastrophe of the cells causes irreversible structural changes, which lead to necrotic damage (in the liver and kidneys) and death. The scientific topicality of the review is due to the recent publication of new data on the probable antidote molecule (ICR: indocyanine green) against amanitins. Further research can provide a new foundation for the therapeutic treatment of poisonings, and the toxicological situation, which currently still poses a deadly threat, could even be tamed into a controllable problem. We also draw attention to the review conclusions, as well as the mycological and social tasks related to amanitin poisonings (prevention of poisonings).', 'Neuroinflammation is one of the postulated mechanisms for Pb neurotoxicity. However, the exact molecular mechanisms responsible for its pro-inflammatory effect are not fully elucidated. In this study, we examined the role of glial cells in neuroinflammation induced by Pb exposure. We investigated how microglia, a type of glial cell, responded to the changes caused by perinatal exposure to Pb by measuring the expression of Iba1 at the mRNA and protein levels. To assess the state of microglia, we analyzed the mRNA levels of specific markers associated with the cytotoxic M1 phenotype (', "Chronic manganese (Mn) exposure can lead to manganism, a neurological disorder sharing common symptoms with Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies have shown that Mn can increase the expression and activity of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), leading to inflammation and toxicity in microglia. LRRK2 G2019S mutation also elevates LRRK2 kinase activity. Thus, we tested if Mn-increased microglial LRRK2 kinase is responsible for Mn-induced toxicity, and exacerbated by G2019S mutation, using WT and LRRK2 G2019S knock-in mice and BV2 microglia. Mn (30\xa0mg/kg, nostril instillation, daily for 3\xa0weeks) caused motor deficits, cognitive impairments, and dopaminergic dysfunction in WT mice, which were exacerbated in G2019S mice. Mn induced proapoptotic Bax, NLRP3 inflammasome, IL-1β, and TNF-α in the striatum and midbrain of WT mice, and these effects were more pronounced in G2019S mice. BV2 microglia were transfected with human LRRK2 WT or G2019S, followed by Mn (250\xa0μM) exposure to better characterize its mechanistic action. Mn increased TNF-α, IL-1β, and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in BV2 cells expressing WT LRRK2, which was elevated further in G2019S-expressing cells, while pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2 mitigated these effects in both genotypes. Moreover, the media from Mn-treated G2019S-expressing BV2 microglia caused greater toxicity to the cath.a-differentiated (CAD) neuronal cells compared to media from microglia expressing WT. Mn-LRRK2 activated RAB10 which was exacerbated in G2019S. RAB10 played a critical role in LRRK2-mediated Mn toxicity by dysregulating the autophagy-lysosome pathway and NLRP3 inflammasome in microglia. Our novel findings suggest that microglial LRRK2 via RAB10 plays a critical role in Mn-induced neuroinflammation.", 'Apoptotic and oxido-inflammatory pathways have been found to be up-regulated in lead acetate poisoning which has been associated to endothelial and testicular dysfunctions. It is yet uncertain, nevertheless, if treatment with Ginkgo biloba supplements (GBS), a flavonoid-rich natural product can lessen the adverse effects of lead on endothelial and testicular functions. This study investigated the impact of Ginkgo biloba supplementation on lead-induced endothelial and testicular dysfunctions. The animals were treated with GBS (50\xa0mg/kg and 100\xa0mg/kg orally) for 14 days following oral exposure to lead acetate (25\xa0mg/kg) for 14 days. After euthanasia, blood samples, epididymal sperm, testes, and aorta were collected. The quantities of the hormones (testosterone, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), as well as the anti-apoptotic, oxidative, nitrergic, inflammatory markers, were then determined using immunohistochemistry, ELISA, and conventional biochemical methods. GBS reduced lead-induced oxidative stress by increasing the levels of the antioxidant enzymes catalase (CAT), glutathione (GSH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), while lowering malondialdehyde (MDA) in endothelium and testicular cells. Normal testicular weight was restored by GBS which also decreased endothelial endothelin-I and increased nitrite levels. TNF-α and IL-6 were decreased while Bcl-2 protein expression was enhanced. Lead-induced alterations in reproductive hormones (FSH, LH, and testosterone) were also restored to normal. According to our result, using Ginkgo biloba supplement prevented lead from causing endothelial and testicular dysfunction by raising pituitary-testicular hormone levels, boosting Bcl-2 protein expression and lowering oxidative and inflammatory stress in the endothelium and testes.', "Organophosphorus compounds (OPs) involving life-threatening nerve agents (NA) have been known for several decades. Despite a clear mechanism of their lethality caused by the irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and manifested via overstimulation of peripheral nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors, the mechanism for central neurotoxicity responsible for acute or delayed symptoms of the poisoning has not been thoroughly uncovered. One of the reasons is the lack of a suitable model. In our study, we have chosen the SH-SY5Y model in both the differentiated and undifferentiated state to study the effects of NAs (GB, VX and A234). The activity of expressed AChE in cell lysate assessed by Ellman's method showed 7.3-times higher activity in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells in contrast to undifferentiated cells, and with no involvement of BuChE as proved by ethopropazine (20\xa0µM). The activity of AChE was found to be, in comparison to untreated cells, 16-, 9.3-, and 1.9-times lower upon A234, VX, and GB (100\xa0µM) administration respectively. The cytotoxic effect of given OPs expressed as the IC", 'Plastics have conveyed great benefits to humanity and made possible some of the most significant advances of modern civilization in fields as diverse as medicine, electronics, aerospace, construction, food packaging, and sports. It is now clear, however, that plastics are also responsible for significant harms to human health, the economy, and the earth\'s environment. These harms occur at every stage of the plastic life cycle, from extraction of the coal, oil, and gas that are its main feedstocks through to ultimate disposal into the environment. The extent of these harms not been systematically assessed, their magnitude not fully quantified, and their economic costs not comprehensively counted. The goals of this Minderoo-Monaco Commission on Plastics and Human Health are to comprehensively examine plastics\' impacts across their life cycle on: (1) human health and well-being; (2) the global environment, especially the ocean; (3) the economy; and (4) vulnerable populations-the poor, minorities, and the world\'s children. On the basis of this examination, the Commission offers science-based recommendations designed to support development of a Global Plastics Treaty, protect human health, and save lives. This Commission report contains seven Sections. Following an Introduction, Section 2 presents a narrative review of the processes involved in plastic production, use, and disposal and notes the hazards to human health and the environment associated with each of these stages. Section 3 describes plastics\' impacts on the ocean and notes the potential for plastic in the ocean to enter the marine food web and result in human exposure. Section 4 details plastics\' impacts on human health. Section 5 presents a first-order estimate of plastics\' health-related economic costs. Section 6 examines the intersection between plastic, social inequity, and environmental injustice. Section 7 presents the Commission\'s findings and recommendations. Plastics are complex, highly heterogeneous, synthetic chemical materials. Over 98% of plastics are produced from fossil carbon- coal, oil and gas. Plastics are comprised of a carbon-based polymer backbone and thousands of additional chemicals that are incorporated into polymers to convey specific properties such as color, flexibility, stability, water repellence, flame retardation, and ultraviolet resistance. Many of these added chemicals are highly toxic. They include carcinogens, neurotoxicants and endocrine disruptors such as phthalates, bisphenols, per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), brominated flame retardants, and organophosphate flame retardants. They are integral components of plastic and are responsible for many of plastics\' harms to human health and the environment.Global plastic production has increased almost exponentially since World War II, and in this time more than 8,300 megatons (Mt) of plastic have been manufactured. Annual production volume has grown from under 2 Mt in 1950 to 460 Mt in 2019, a 230-fold increase, and is on track to triple by 2060. More than half of all plastic ever made has been produced since 2002. Single-use plastics account for 35-40% of current plastic production and represent the most rapidly growing segment of plastic manufacture.Explosive recent growth in plastics production reflects a deliberate pivot by the integrated multinational fossil-carbon corporations that produce coal, oil and gas and that also manufacture plastics. These corporations are reducing their production of fossil fuels and increasing plastics manufacture. The two principal factors responsible for this pivot are decreasing global demand for carbon-based fuels due to increases in \'green\' energy, and massive expansion of oil and gas production due to fracking.Plastic manufacture is energy-intensive and contributes significantly to climate change. At present, plastic production is responsible for an estimated 3.7% of global greenhouse gas emissions, more than the contribution of Brazil. This fraction is projected to increase to 4.5% by 2060 if current trends continue unchecked. The plastic life cycle has three phases: production, use, and disposal. In production, carbon feedstocks-coal, gas, and oil-are transformed through energy-intensive, catalytic processes into a vast array of products. Plastic use occurs in every aspect of modern life and results in widespread human exposure to the chemicals contained in plastic. Single-use plastics constitute the largest portion of current use, followed by synthetic fibers and construction.Plastic disposal is highly inefficient, with recovery and recycling rates below 10% globally. The result is that an estimated 22 Mt of plastic waste enters the environment each year, much of it single-use plastic and are added to the more than 6 gigatons of plastic waste that have accumulated since 1950. Strategies for disposal of plastic waste include controlled and uncontrolled landfilling, open burning, thermal conversion, and export. Vast quantities of plastic waste are exported each year from high-income to low-income countries, where it accumulates in landfills, pollutes air and water, degrades vital ecosystems, befouls beaches and estuaries, and harms human health-environmental injustice on a global scale. Plastic-laden e-waste is particularly problematic. Plastics and plastic-associated chemicals are responsible for widespread pollution. They contaminate aquatic (marine and freshwater), terrestrial, and atmospheric environments globally. The ocean is the ultimate destination for much plastic, and plastics are found throughout the ocean, including coastal regions, the sea surface, the deep sea, and polar sea ice. Many plastics appear to resist breakdown in the ocean and could persist in the global environment for decades. Macro- and micro-plastic particles have been identified in hundreds of marine species in all major taxa, including species consumed by humans. Trophic transfer of microplastic particles and the chemicals within them has been demonstrated. Although microplastic particles themselves (>10 µm) appear not to undergo biomagnification, hydrophobic plastic-associated chemicals bioaccumulate in marine animals and biomagnify in marine food webs. The amounts and fates of smaller microplastic and nanoplastic particles (MNPs <10 µm) in aquatic environments are poorly understood, but the potential for harm is worrying given their mobility in biological systems. Adverse environmental impacts of plastic pollution occur at multiple levels from molecular and biochemical to population and ecosystem. MNP contamination of seafood results in direct, though not well quantified, human exposure to plastics and plastic-associated chemicals. Marine plastic pollution endangers the ocean ecosystems upon which all humanity depends for food, oxygen, livelihood, and well-being. Coal miners, oil workers and gas field workers who extract fossil carbon feedstocks for plastic production suffer increased mortality from traumatic injury, coal workers\' pneumoconiosis, silicosis, cardiovascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and lung cancer. Plastic production workers are at increased risk of leukemia, lymphoma, hepatic angiosarcoma, brain cancer, breast cancer, mesothelioma, neurotoxic injury, and decreased fertility. Workers producing plastic textiles die of bladder cancer, lung cancer, mesothelioma, and interstitial lung disease at increased rates. Plastic recycling workers have increased rates of cardiovascular disease, toxic metal poisoning, neuropathy, and lung cancer. Residents of "fenceline" communities adjacent to plastic production and waste disposal sites experience increased risks of premature birth, low birth weight, asthma, childhood leukemia, cardiovascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and lung cancer.During use and also in disposal, plastics release toxic chemicals including additives and residual monomers into the environment and into people. National biomonitoring surveys in the USA document population-wide exposures to these chemicals. Plastic additives disrupt endocrine function and increase risk for premature births, neurodevelopmental disorders, male reproductive birth defects, infertility, obesity, cardiovascular disease, renal disease, and cancers. Chemical-laden MNPs formed through the environmental degradation of plastic waste can enter living organisms, including humans. Emerging, albeit still incomplete evidence indicates that MNPs may cause toxicity due to their physical and toxicological effects as well as by acting as vectors that transport toxic chemicals and bacterial pathogens into tissues and cells.Infants in the womb and young children are two populations at particularly high risk of plastic-related health effects. Because of the exquisite sensitivity of early development to hazardous chemicals and children\'s unique patterns of exposure, plastic-associated exposures are linked to increased risks of prematurity, stillbirth, low birth weight, birth defects of the reproductive organs, neurodevelopmental impairment, impaired lung growth, and childhood cancer. Early-life exposures to plastic-associated chemicals also increase the risk of multiple non-communicable diseases later in life. Plastic\'s harms to human health result in significant economic costs. We estimate that in 2015 the health-related costs of plastic production exceeded $250 billion (2015 Int$) globally, and that in the USA alone the health costs of disease and disability caused by the plastic-associated chemicals PBDE, BPA and DEHP exceeded $920 billion (2015 Int$). Plastic production results in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions equivalent to 1.96 gigatons of carbon dioxide (CO The adverse effects of plastics and plastic pollution on human health, the economy and the environment are not evenly distributed. They disproportionately affect poor, disempowered, and marginalized populations such as workers, racial and ethnic minorities, "fenceline" communities, Indigenous groups, women, and children, all of whom had little to do with creating the current plastics crisis and lack the political influence or the resources to address it. Plastics\' harmful impacts across its life cycle are most keenly felt in the Global South, in small island states, and in disenfranchised areas in the Global North. Social and environmental justice (SEJ) principles require reversal of these inequitable burdens to ensure that no group bears a disproportionate share of plastics\' negative impacts and that those who benefit economically from plastic bear their fair share of its currently externalized costs. It is now clear that current patterns of plastic production, use, and disposal are not sustainable and are responsible for significant harms to human health, the environment, and the economy as well as for deep societal injustices.The main driver of these worsening harms is an almost exponential and still accelerating increase in global plastic production. Plastics\' harms are further magnified by low rates of recovery and recycling and by the long persistence of plastic waste in the environment.The thousands of chemicals in plastics-monomers, additives, processing agents, and non-intentionally added substances-include amongst their number known human carcinogens, endocrine disruptors, neurotoxicants, and persistent organic pollutants. These chemicals are responsible for many of plastics\' known harms to human and planetary health. The chemicals leach out of plastics, enter the environment, cause pollution, and result in human exposure and disease. All efforts to reduce plastics\' hazards must address the hazards of plastic-associated chemicals. To protect human and planetary health, especially the health of vulnerable and at-risk populations, and put the world on track to end plastic pollution by 2040, this Commission supports urgent adoption by the world\'s nations of a strong and comprehensive Global Plastics Treaty in accord with the mandate set forth in the March 2022 resolution of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA).International measures such as a Global Plastics Treaty are needed to curb plastic production and pollution, because the harms to human health and the environment caused by plastics, plastic-associated chemicals and plastic waste transcend national boundaries, are planetary in their scale, and have disproportionate impacts on the health and well-being of people in the world\'s poorest nations. Effective implementation of the Global Plastics Treaty will require that international action be coordinated and complemented by interventions at the national, regional, and local levels.This Commission urges that a cap on global plastic production with targets, timetables, and national contributions be a central provision of the Global Plastics Treaty. We recommend inclusion of the following additional provisions:The Treaty needs to extend beyond microplastics and marine litter to include all of the many thousands of chemicals incorporated into plastics.The Treaty needs to include a provision banning or severely restricting manufacture and use of unnecessary, avoidable, and problematic plastic items, especially single-use items such as manufactured plastic microbeads.The Treaty needs to include requirements on extended producer responsibility (EPR) that make fossil carbon producers, plastic producers, and the manufacturers of plastic products legally and financially responsible for the safety and end-of-life management of all the materials they produce and sell.The Treaty needs to mandate reductions in the chemical complexity of plastic products; health-protective standards for plastics and plastic additives; a requirement for use of sustainable non-toxic materials; full disclosure of all components; and traceability of components. International cooperation will be essential to implementing and enforcing these standards.The Treaty needs to include SEJ remedies at each stage of the plastic life cycle designed to fill gaps in community knowledge and advance both distributional and procedural equity.This Commission encourages inclusion in the Global Plastic Treaty of a provision calling for exploration of listing at least some plastic polymers as persistent organic pollutants (POPs) under the Stockholm Convention.This Commission encourages a strong interface between the Global Plastics Treaty and the Basel and London Conventions to enhance management of hazardous plastic waste and slow current massive exports of plastic waste into the world\'s least-developed countries.This Commission recommends the creation of a Permanent Science Policy Advisory Body to guide the Treaty\'s implementation. The main priorities of this Body would be to guide Member States and other stakeholders in evaluating which solutions are most effective in reducing plastic consumption, enhancing plastic waste recovery and recycling, and curbing the generation of plastic waste. This Body could also assess trade-offs among these solutions and evaluate safer alternatives to current plastics. It could monitor the transnational export of plastic waste. It could coordinate robust oceanic-, land-, and air-based MNP monitoring programs.This Commission recommends urgent investment by national governments in research into solutions to the global plastic crisis. This research will need to determine which solutions are most effective and cost-effective in the context of particular countries and assess the risks and benefits of proposed solutions. Oceanographic and environmental research is needed to better measure concentrations and impacts of plastics <10 µm and understand their distribution and fate in the global environment. Biomedical research is needed to elucidate the human health impacts of plastics, especially MNPs. This Commission finds that plastics are both a boon to humanity and a stealth threat to human and planetary health. Plastics convey enormous benefits, but current linear patterns of plastic production, use, and disposal that pay little attention to sustainable design or safe materials and a near absence of recovery, reuse, and recycling are responsible for grave harms to health, widespread environmental damage, great economic costs, and deep societal injustices. These harms are rapidly worsening.While there remain gaps in knowledge about plastics\' harms and uncertainties about their full magnitude, the evidence available today demonstrates unequivocally that these impacts are great and that they will increase in severity in the absence of urgent and effective intervention at global scale. Manufacture and use of essential plastics may continue. However, reckless increases in plastic production, and especially increases in the manufacture of an ever-increasing array of unnecessary single-use plastic products, need to be curbed.Global intervention against the plastic crisis is needed now because the costs of failure to act will be immense.', 'Low-level lead exposure in children is a major public health issue. Higher-resolution spatial targeting would significantly improve county and state-wide policies and programs for lead exposure prevention that generally intervene across large geographic areas. We use stack-ensemble machine learning, including an elastic net generalized linear model, gradient-boosted machine, and deep neural network, to predict the number of children with venous blood lead levels (BLLs) ≥2 to <5 µg/dL and ≥5 µg/dL in ~1 km', 'Analogues of palytoxin (PLTX), one of the most potent marine biotoxins, are produced by some species of the marine dinoflagellates of the genus ', 'Mitophagy has distinct functions, which can lead to either protection or damage of tissues. Though current evidence indicated that NaF triggers mitophagy, the role and regulation of mitophagy in sodium fluoride (NaF)-induced liver injury still remain unclear. Therefore, we exployed the cell and mouse models and confirmed that NaF treatment activates mitophagy. Knocking down PTEN-induced putative kinase protein 1 (PINK1) expression attenuated mitophagy and increased the degree of mitochondrial impairment, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in NaF-treated HepG2 cells. In vivo experiments indicated that PINK1 deficiency weakened NaF-induced mitophagy. Moreover, PINK1-deficient mices aggravated NaF-induced hepatic mitochondrial injury, oxidative stress, and inflammation in livers, evidenced by the increased number of abnormal mitochondria, decreased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and glutathione (GSH) levels, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) content, enhanced hepatic macrophage infiltration and inflammatory cytokine levels. Notably, NaF exposure activated Nrf2 signaling both in vitro and in vivo. Nrf2 siRNA transfection blocked the upregulation of PINK1 expression and the induction of mitophagy in NaF-treated HepG2 cells. Also, ML385 (Nrf2 inhibitor) partially blocked the upregulation of PINK1 expression caused by NaF in mice livers. To sum up, the present study provided the demonstration that Nrf2/PINK1-mediated mitophagy activation offers a hepatoprotective effect by inhibiting NaF-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and inflammation.', 'Inorganic arsenic is highly toxic and carcinogenic to humans. Exposed individuals vary in their ability to metabolize arsenic, and variability in arsenic metabolism efficiency (AME) is associated with risks of arsenic-related toxicities. Inherited genetic variation in the 10q24.32 region, near the arsenic methyltransferase (AS3MT) gene, is associated with urine-based measures of AME in multiple arsenic-exposed populations. To identify potential causal variants in this region, we applied fine mapping approaches to targeted sequencing data generated for exposed individuals from Bangladeshi, American Indian, and European American populations (n = 2,357, 557, and 648 respectively). We identified three independent association signals for Bangladeshis, two for American Indians, and one for European Americans. The size of the confidence sets for each signal varied from 4 to 85 variants. There was one signal shared across all three populations, represented by the same SNP in American Indians and European Americans (rs191177668) and in strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) with a lead SNP in Bangladesh (rs145537350). Beyond this shared signal, differences in LD patterns, minor allele frequency (MAF) (e.g., rs12573221 ~13% in Bangladesh ~0.2% among American Indians), and/or heterogeneity in effect sizes across populations likely contributed to the apparent population specificity of the additional identified signals. One of our potential causal variants influences AS3MT expression and nearby DNA methylation in numerous GTEx tissue types (with rs4919690 as a likely causal variant). Several SNPs in our confidence sets overlap transcription factor binding sites and cis-regulatory elements (from ENCODE). Taken together, our analyses reveal multiple potential causal variants in the 10q24.32 region influencing AME, including a variant shared across populations, and elucidate potential biological mechanisms underlying the impact of genetic variation on AME.', 'Withania frutescens was used previously in traditherapy against poisoning, gastric ulceration, and dysentery treatments. Because no previous studies reporting on its therapeutic effects on male reproductive system and fertility disorders, this study aims to examine its effect on lead induced testicular damages as well as sperm count and hormonal status in rats. The present study is performed to determine their phytochemical compositions using GC-MS analysis, their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities in-vitro using spectrophotometry and then to estimate testosterone levels, sperm count, histopathological features, as well as spermatogenesis (TDI) and spermiogenesis (SPI) indices. The experiment is conducted for three months using four groups (Group A: control rats; Group B: exposed rats to lead-acetate; Group C: exposed rats to lead-acetate and 200\xa0mg/kg of W. frutescens extract; Group D: treated rats with 200\xa0mg/kg of W. frutescens extract). The obtained results show a total of 10 identified components from GC-MS analysis. Whereas a total phenolic content of 63.23\xa0±\xa03.82 GAE/g of extract, 25.16\xa0±\xa01.21\xa0µg/mL of anti-free radical activity, and reducing power of 163.19\xa0±\xa06.01\xa0µg/mL. A high anti-inflammatory activity is determined by hemolysis inhibition (IC50\xa0=12.71\xa0±\xa01.06\xa0µg/mL) and protein denaturation inhibition (IC50\xa0=6.8\xa0±\xa01.23\xa0µg/mL). Besides, lead exposure causes histological alterations in testis and decreases serum testosterone level, sperm count, and TDI and SPI indices. W. frutescens treated and co-treated animals showed no toxic effects throughout the experiment. However, it is found to improve testosterone level, increase sperm count, attenuate the testicular histopathological effect of lead, and increase TDI and SPI. These findings . these findings suggest that W. frutescens is a better source of bioactive compounds, which play an effective role against lead testicular damages. Furthermore, this natural extract can be utilized potentially in pharmaceutical and medicinal applications.', "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common age-related movement disorder characterized by the progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. To date, PD treatment strategies are mostly based on dopamine replacement medicines, which can alleviate motor symptoms but do not slow down the progression of neurodegeneration. Thus, there is a need for disease-modifying PD therapies. The aim of this work was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the novel compound PA96 on dopamine neurons in vivo and in vitro, assess its ability to alleviate motor deficits in MPTP- and haloperidol-based PD models, as well as PK profile and BBB penetration. PA96 was synthesized from (1", "Lead (Pb) exposure has been a serious environmental and public health problem throughout the world over the years. The major sources of lead in the past were paint and gasoline before they were phased out due to its toxicity. Meanwhile, people continue to be exposed to lead from time to time through many other sources such as water, food, soil and air. Lead exposure from these sources could have detrimental effects on human health, especially in children. UNICEF reported that approximately 800 million children have blood lead levels (BLLs) at or above 5 micrograms per deciliter (µg/dL) globally. This paper reports on the potential risks of lead exposure from early life through later life. The articles used in this study were searched from databases such as Springer, Science Direct, Hindawi, MDPI, Google Scholar, PubMed and other academic databases. The levels of lead exposure in low income and middle-income countries (LMICs) and high-income countries (HICs) were reported, with the former being more affected. The intake of certain nutrients could play an essential role in reducing (e.g., calcium and iron) or increasing (e.g., high fat foods) lead absorption in children. Elevated blood lead levels may disturb the cells' biological metabolism by replacing beneficial ions in the body such as calcium, magnesium, iron and sodium. Once these ions are replaced by lead, they can lead to brain disorders, resulting in reduced IQ, learning difficulties, reduced attention span and some behavioral problems. Exposure to lead at an early age may lead to the development of more critical problems later in life. This is because exposure to this metal can be harmful even at low exposure levels and may have a lasting and irreversible effect on humans. Precautionary measures should be put in place to prevent future exposure. These will go a long way in safeguarding the health of everyone, most especially the young ones."]


